André Schepers
andreschepers.nl

Utrechtsch Studenten Corps<br />
Janskerkhof 14<br />
3512 BL Utrecht

24 maart 2024

Subject: PowerPointpresentatie

Utrechtsch Studenten Corps,

With this letter I try to ask you for answers. That what happened, is
unacceptable in our society. Of course the behavior itself of the individuals
who created and spread the document will not be accepted, but that is the domain
of the legal system in The Netherlands to take care of. What you as an
organisation most probably did, or better said, not did: Put proper moral
systems in place to do everything in your power to prevent this, is what is
bothering me so much. As far as it is clear to me, a citizen of The Netherlands,
you did not even come close to doing everything possible, in my honest opinion.
I wish to ask you a full list of actions you took, after the incidents of the
student societies in Groningen and Amsterdam. For example, did you draft a
legally binding rules of engagement document, that members had to agree with, if
they wished to remain a member of your society. Rules indicating the clear
conviction of the organisation, that women should be respected, should not be
bullied, humiliated, that there is no excuse whatsoever. What you describe on
your website, is that you offer workshops. As if you wish to say you offered the
members a choice to become a better citizen, voluntarily, but if they chose
otherwise, also okay. How laissez-faire did you choose to remain with
leadership? You’re dealing with very young people, whose brains are literally
still growing, who are still very impressionable, and are easy to manipulate in
doing morally deplorable things. That means you have a responsibility here.
Workshops are simply nót enough, indicating the organisation does not stand by
it, is also nót enough. Instead, you test cultural values, implicit and not only
explicit, and change proactively. In the current situation you have a moral 
obligation, to not only work together with UVSV, but work together with society,
to find out what exactly was not done that could have been expected from an
organisation like yours, and what was not done. Then, investigate why the proper
moral and safety systems were not in place. Proof that this incident could not
have been prevented. Citizens of this country, The Netherlands, need to now step
in, and get full access to all information necessary to come to the conclusion,
you possess enough skill, intent, and moral convictions, to prevent these type
of incidents. How is it possible it happened after it became apparently clear,
after Amsterdam and Groningen, that things are very wrong, regarding the view
men have of women and what they find morally acceptable regarding how to treat
women? You lost the benefit of the doubt. Society, at the very least in the form
of me, are stepping in. A little page on your website, is not even close
enough to release yourself of moral obligations other than the ones you
mentioned on that page. You have a duty of care.
If young students, mention: “I will change his personality”, you are entering
the domain of cognitive reprogramming. To what extent were the two boys,
programmed by your organisation, the hazing included, the culture you choose to
uphold, and to what extent did it contribute to these acts (creating and
distributing the PowerPoint)?

In my opinion, your organisation has been laissez-faire in acting against crimes
against women. In this case, you need to at least proof, that after what
happened in Amsterdam and Groningen, you did what was at the very least possible
and necessary. An example is a legally binding rules of engagement document,
clearly describing the view of the organisation and the expectation of members
that the organisation has. Did you at least create that, shared it with all the
members, and publish it to the outside world, society at the very least? What
are the methodologies used to make sure, members develop a proper moral compass?
How do you test this? I want a clear description of what methodologies you
employ, how you measure this development and how you measure how people actually
act within the organisation.

    * I demand that you share with society, a list of methodologies employed,
      to help members develop a proper moral compass. Also, methodologies to
      test to what extend you were successful. And last but not least, a list of
      techniques to test the safety systems in place to prevent and stop toxic,
      dangerous actions of members towards other members, members of society
      and the propogation of hatred against women. Time to start proving you
      know what you are doing as an organisation.
    * The rules of engagement, whether they are legally binding (legal
      repercussions), and to what extent members comply to these rules. Also the
      the consequences, your actions, for a member, if they refuse to agree with
      them.
    * To what extent do you use explicit cognitive programming? To what extent
      are you aware of the implicit cognitive programming going on? To what
      extent can you proof that you are not aware of implicit cognitive
      programming? For example, if the powerpointpresentation was a consequence
      of your actions, hazing, rituals, keeping members up until 0400 hours am,
      while telling them how to act, think, how to talk, you are responsible.
      One comes to the point of concluding, that it is either incompetence, or
      acting in bad faith, if it comes to taking responsibility of controlling
      behavior of members. Ignorance regarding knowing that you will have young
      men, growing still mentally and morally, impressionable by older members,
      that could have put them to it, merely maybe to try the powers of
      manipulation and psychological control, social engineering, and what not,
      is incompetence. To what extent do you expect society to except this level
      of incompetence, that clearly has very negative consequences? If you proof
      that incompetence is not the case, how is it that it was not acting in bad
      faith to do more to prevent this? How do you proof anything in this case?
      When will you share the intent to look into procedures and share them with
      society?
    * How much have Utrecht University and Hogeschool Utrecht helped with
      regards to giving advise and checked with you how you use moral systems,
      control systems, safety systems and how your rituals affect the psyches of
      young men in your organisation? In the engineering field, if something
      goes wrong, external parties do a thorough research into how this can be
      prevented. Are you asking help from other parties? Is this public? Can
      society check this happened or is it all kept behind closed doors? Utrecht
      University and Hogeschool Utrecht will be dealt with in a separate direct
      engagement between me and them.

Not answering these requests, (in)directly or by proxy, will result in me
escalating to society in the form of asking politicians and journalists to
take actions. But also societal system builders.

André Schepers
andreschepers.nl

P.S: I rushed this letter, because it is about starting the process of open
policies of Corps societies in The Netherlands at the least. Too many times
things went completely wrong. No more contracts to be signed by members that if
they share anything regarding hazing and what not that goes on in the societies,
they will have to pay large amounts of money. Openness, policies being checked
and audited by society, not by the organisation itself: We of Toilet Duck,
advise…

P.P.S: This fiasco, again asks for an independent organisation for the
protection and development of natural persons. This is for me again apparently
clear due to this situation we all find ourselves in. At the moment one lawyer
paid for by the families of the victims, is going to not only fight for justice
for the victims and families of the victims, but also activities in the context
of societal system building. I don't think it is fair to let them do this alone!
Society should do this with them, in support of them, letting them know they are
not alone! Where are you society!
Source: https://www.destentor.nl/binnenland/meerdere-slachtoffers-bangalijst-doen-aangifte-vrouwen-zijn-zwaar-geraakt-ze-zijn-echt-heel-jong~a3baaa17/