# Glossary

## a ubiquitous language

### Empty Rhetoric

Empty rhetoric: Rhetoric reused in a different situation, in which the vision
holds no grounds, but was applicable in a situation, in which people saw those
that truly understood this vision, being persuaded by said used rhetoric. Due to
not understanding the vision behind the rhetoric, people might be ashamed if not
persuaded by that rhetoric, although reused in a completely new situation, because
they might be seen as incompetent. While, if one would ask for the background of
the rhetoric, and the underlying vision, one would instantaneously see, it is a
big pile of horse dun.
[The Emperor's New Clothes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Emperor%27s_New_Clothes).

### "Moral person" or a person with morals

*[One of the most important implications of bad faith is the abolition of
traditional ethics. Being a "moral person" requires one to deny authentic
impulses (everything that makes us human) and allow the will of another person
to change one's actions. Being "a moral person" is one of the most severe forms
of bad faith. Sartre essentially characterizes this as "the faith of bad faith"
which is and should not be, in Sartre's opinion, at the heart of one's
existence. Sartre has a very low opinion of conventional ethics, condemning it
as a tool of the bourgeoisie to control the masses.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Being_and_Nothingness)*

[Morals](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/moral)

[Bad faith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bad_faith_(existentialism))

### Social or functional construct you abide by with your moral man ethics.

Playing bourgeoisie games.
TBC...

### From one-self for one-self

From one-self for another: From a point of having morals and abiding by them,
and from that acting for someone else.

### Consumption of a (perceived) social situation

If mother nature punishes and rewards us, has power over us when in a
(perceived) social situation, how much power can an external entity then
subsequently have over us? What powers do we give others, when we allow them to
be considered by us to be part of our social situation and our internal mother
nature subsequently then be activated by the behavior of these others?

### Societal or social exclusion

